Upgrade to K8up v2 (#56)
projectsyn/component-backup-k8up: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/multi-instances.adoc

== Limitations Of Multiple Instances

* You can't deploy multiple instances with the same major version as K8up.
* It's possible to encounter a name collision when using K8up's `PreBackupPod` if using K8up v1 and v2 for the same application.

== Component Configuration

.Sample configuration
[source,yaml]
----
applications:
  - backup_k8up as k8up-v1
  - backup_k8up as k8up-v2
parameters:
  k8up_v1:
    majorVersion: v1 <1>
    namespace: k8up-v1 <2>
    helmReleaseName: k8upv1 <3>
  k8up_v2:
    majorVersion: v2 <1>
    namespace: k8up-v2 <2>
    helmReleaseName: k8upv2 <3>
----
<1> Choose a different major version of K8up for each instance
<2> Choose a different namespace for each instance
<3> Choose a different Helm release name for each instance

[NOTE]
====
You need to choose a different Helm release names since the component comes with cluster-scoped resources that share the same name.
The ArgoCD apps will then "fight" against eachother when doing syncs.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `backup-k8up.libjsonnet` library with component v3 will render K8up resources for K8up v2.
This causes Syn-managed K8up resources for K8up v1 to be **deleted** and replaced with K8up v2 by ArgoCD.

> In other words: You will lose all resources, like `Backups` belonging to a `Schedule` and the `Schedule`, however the actual Restic backup repositories should continue working.

Reviewer: Maybe we could clarify we don't actually lose the objects since they're replaced. We do lose the object status though...

Author: If a component only manages `Schedule`, then all `Backups` belonging to that schedule will be gone because of owner reference. They aren't replaced by ArgoCD (only the schedule is). So you'll the "history" of the backups.

Author: Do you think I should clarify this further?

Reviewer: It sounds a bit "scary" IMO. I would tone it down a bit. All of them are replaceable objects, old jobs from a schedule are even auto removed by the history limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words: Since objects are recreated you will lose all status and job information of past backups. However the actual Restic backup repositories should continue working.
```

Something like like this?

Author: yes, that's better

====

[NOTE]
====
Once both instances are installed `kubectl get backup` will return the `Backup` objects from `k8up.io` in K8up v2.
If you would like to list the `Backup` objects from K8up v1, run `kubectl get backup.backup.appuio.ch` (or `schedule.backup.appuio.ch` for `Schedules`)
====

== Recommendation

> As outlined in more detail in xref:how-tos/upgrade-v2-v3.adoc[Upgrade component from v2 to v3] multiple instances enable upgrades from K8up v1 to v2 in a controlled time period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As outlined in more detail in xref:how-tos/upgrade-v2-v3.adoc[Upgrade component from v2 to v3], deploying K8up v1 and v2 in parallel provides an upgrade window for users to migrate their backups from K8up v1 to v2.
```

> It's recommended that each application to be upgraded at once.

Author: I wanted to somehow emphasize that one should do a complete upgrade of K8up to v2 for the enire app when doing so.
One shouldn't migrate a `Schedule` to v2, but keep a v1 version of `PreBackupPod`.

However, App A doesn't need to be upgraded at the same time as App B, as long as they don't share a `Schedule` I guess...

> It's recommended that each application to be upgraded at once.

Author: I've removed the sentence and reworded.
